---
title: "Pearse Lab - Home"
layout: homelay
excerpt: "Pearse Lab - ecology | evolution | conservation"
sitemap: false
permalink: /
---

We use species evolutionary history to better understand and predict
their present-day ecology.  Our lab develops new statistical and
computational tools to answer fundamental questions about the origins
and future of biodiversity, and applies those insights to improve
human wellbeing.


<div markdown="0" id="carousel" class="carousel slide" data-ride="carousel" data-interval="5000" data-pause="hover" >
    <!-- Menu -->
    <ol class="carousel-indicators">
        <li data-target="#carousel" data-slide-to="0" class="active"></li>
        <li data-target="#carousel" data-slide-to="1"></li>
        <li data-target="#carousel" data-slide-to="2"></li>
        <li data-target="#carousel" data-slide-to="3"></li>
	<li data-target="#carousel" data-slide-to="4"></li>
    </ol>

    <!-- Items -->
    <div class="carousel-inner" markdown="0">
        <div class="item">
            <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/lab-party-2023.png" alt="Lab party 2023"  style="height:300px"/>
        </div>
        <div class="item active">
            <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/lab-2022-pub.jpg" alt="Lab pub trip 2022" style="height:300px" />
        </div>
	<div class="item">
            <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/narwhal-lab.jpg" alt="Lab narwhal party"  style="height:300px"/>
        </div>
        <div class="item">
            <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/pearse-2014-review.png" alt="Slide 3"  style="height:300px"/>
        </div>
        <div class="item">
            <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/rhf-dayone.jpg" alt="Slide 4"  style="height:300px"/>
        </div>
    </div>
  <a class="left carousel-control" href="#carousel" role="button" data-slide="prev">
    <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-chevron-left" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Previous</span>
  </a>
  <a class="right carousel-control" href="#carousel" role="button" data-slide="next">
    <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-chevron-right" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Next</span>
  </a>
</div>

Our fieldsites employ a novel fractal sampling design to leverage
species' responses to existing environmental gradients to predict
future responses to change. We work with a number of conservation
programs, such as the EDGE of Existence Program, to help safeguard
natural ecosystems and the valuable services they provide for
humanity. We also maintain the [Ecological Fractal
Network](https://ecofracnetwork.github.io/), a global network of >40
researchers on every continent bar Antarctica seeking to better
understand and preserve biodiversity worldwide.

We work directly with governments, charities, and the private sector
to solve problems with biodiversity, health, and statistics/AI. If you
have a problem you would like to solve, [please reach out directly to
Will](mailto:will.pearse@imperial.ac.uk); for governments and
charities we usually work for free and for the private sector we make
use of [Imperial's consultancy
scheme](https://www.imperial.ac.uk/natural-sciences/find-an-expert/icon/)
for shorter contracts or [Imperial's industry
services](https://www.imperial.ac.uk/natural-sciences/find-an-expert/industry-partnerships-and-commercialisation/)
for larger contracts.

We are always looking for new undergraduates, MSc, and PhD students
looking to join the lab, or potential post-docs interested in applying
for funding. Have a look around this website and, if you're
interested, please [send Will an email](mailto:will.pearse@usu.edu)

We are grateful for funding from [Imperial College London](https://www.imperial.ac.uk/life-sciences/), [UKRI/NERC](https://www.ukri.org/councils/nerc/), [UKRI/BBSRC](https://www.ukri.org/councils/bbsrc/), the [National Science Foundation](https://www.nsf.gov), the [USDA Forest Service](https://www.fs.fed.us) (and in particular the [PIBO program](https://www.fs.usda.gov/detail/r4/landmanagement/resourcemanagement/?cid=stelprd3845865)), and [iDIV/sDIV](https://www.idiv.de/sdiv.html), [Hitachi](https://www.hitachi.eu/en/press/imperial-college-london-and-hitachi-research-climate-solutions/), and others.

<figure class="fourth">
  <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/imperial-logo.png" style="width:150px">
  <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/ukri-nerc.png" style="height:80px">
  <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/nsf.png" style="height:80px">
  <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/forest-service.png" style="height:80px">
  <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/idiv.jpg" style="width: 100px">
  <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/hitachi-logo.svg" style="width: 100px">
</figure>
