---
title: "Pearse Lab - Join us!"
layout: textlay
excerpt: "Join the lab!"
sitemap: false
permalink: /join
---


# Join the lab! ![]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/narwhal-lab.jpg){: style="width: 300px; float: right; border: 10px"}
We are always looking for undergraduate students looking to get
research experience (and research credit), graduate students
interested in getting an MSc or PhD, or post-docs interested in
applying for funding to join the lab. The lab is located at Utah State
university (USA). Surrounded by beautiful national parks and rivers on
all sides, it’s the perfect place to study biology (and go hiking,
skiing, climbing, swimming…)! If the outdoors isn’t enough for you,
the bright lights of Salt Lake City (host of the 2002 Winter Olympics)
are right on your doorstep.

The lab is a team, and we work together to collect, analyze, and
understand biodiversity data. Whatever your experience, major,
background, ethnicity, nationality, age, gender, sexuality, or
disability, please consider joining us.

### Undergraduate positions

Carrying out research is the best part of being a scientist, and if
you're in any way interested in biology then consider joining the lab!
We don't mind how experienced you are in biology (or science in
general), but rather how enthusiastic and dedicated you are. If you
join the lab, you will be carrying out _real_ research that could lead
to publications. Several other undergraduates in the lab have
published papers as a result of their work, and once you have been
with the lab for a little while you may have the opportunity to join
in with lab meetings.

If you're interested in joining the lab, [email Dr
Pearse](mailto:will.pearse@usu.edu) describing what sort of work you'd
be interested in doing (fieldwork, computer work, or something else!),
what interests you about the work we do (take a look on this site for
inspiration), and a copy of your CV. We don't care about your GPA: as
long as you're passionate, and we can trust you to try hard (everyone
makes mistakes sometimes!), you'll fit right in.

### Potential MSc and PhD students  ![]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/logan-aerial.jpg){: style="width: 300px; float: right; border: 10px"}
We are an inter-disciplinary lab, studying the interactions between
community ecology and evolutionary biology using cutting-edge
statistical techniques. We are always looking for people with
experience in community ecology, evolutionary biology, bioinformatics,
or any of the research areas that we explore. We are very lucky in the
Department of Biology to have fantastic Teaching Assistantships
available. Sometimes we have Research Assistantships available, and
Will is always willing to help students who want to apply a fellowship
(_e.g._, through the [NSF GRFP program]()).

If you are interested in working with us, [please send Will an email,
outlining (briefly) why you are interested in joining the lab, and
with a copy of your CV](mailto:will.pearse@usu.edu). If you have GRE
scores, send them along, but the lab doesn't choose or disqualify
anyone on the basis of GRE scores.

### Potential post-docs
Right now we don't have any post-doc funding, but if you would be
interested in a position in the future please [send Will an
email](mailto:will.pearse@usu.edu). If you're interested in writing a
fellowship proposal to join the lab, such as an NSF post-doc or a
Smith Fellowship, then please get in touch and let's talk!
